 I wish to highly recommend Erik Boesen as a candidate to receive this year’s FIRST Dean’s List award. Erik has been an active member of our robotics team for the last three years, and is one of the team leaders this season. He is currently our head programmer, and has contributed to every aspect of our team’s outreach and development. Erik is an articulate and resourceful young man who took it upon himself at the beginning of this academic year to organize and teach a weekly class in the programming software Python. He has also traveled to Richmond, Virginia, on behalf of our school district to promote STEM education and FIRST programs at the Virginia House of Delegates. He has participated in every outreach project our team has organized this year. He led the effort to demonstrate last year’s robot at the Virginia Tech Maker Faire. His efforts brought robots to life for preschool through middle school attendees via hands-on activities. He is always willing to act as our team spokesperson, and is especially good with students who are new to the program and need to find the best way to get involved. Erik has shared information about our robotics program with the students of George Mason High School by running a robotics information session for students who might be interested in robotics. He is truly an ambassador for the FIRST FRC robotics club! Erik has also has established his own company, Vektre Labs, which focuses on web design and development along with other technology services. Recently, he won the US Congressional App Challenge representing Virginia’s Eighth Congressional District by making an app which gives people easy access to opposing political views on a variety of controversial issues. The quality I most respect in Erik is his calm and quiet demeanor amidst the hurly-burly of design-and-build sessions or during competition. He has an enviable knack for keeping his teammates in touch with programming developments, and is my top candidate for this year’s drive team coach due to his appreciation for game strategy and familiarity with all the technical aspects of our robot’s design. Erik has programmed and shared with the FIRST community the award-winning open source driver station program FRC Dashboard (based on our driving user interface) and VictiScout, a scouting app. The amount of time and energy Erik has spent helping the team through an arduous and successful build season has far exceeded that of any other team members. Because of Erik’s persistence and attention to detail, as well as his faculty for researching information and/or tapping into the experience of our FIRST alumni who are away at college, we have some of the most dependable autonomous routines we have ever fielded. Among the many important ways, Erik can be counted on is his ability to speak about FIRST in public arenas for the benefit of our school and community. Our school system has committed resources and facilities in support of FIRST for the last fifteen years. This challenging hands-on design-and-build experience represents an important component of our school, which seeks academic structures that nurture excellence. Erik represents just those standards of excellence FIRST originally championed. Through this program, Erik has acquired the best experience that we as a school could hope for our students, an education which is profound in depth and versatility. He is an excellent example for our school and our community, and a great ambassador for the FIRST program.

John D. Ballou
Senior Mentor
FRC Team 1418
George Mason High School
